---
layout: post
title: Typescript (6) - Intersection, Enum (Enumerated Type)
categories: typescript lecture
author: Simon Lee
permalink: /:categories/:title
---

<strong>---> [TYPESCRIPT OFFICIAL WEBSITE][typescript-offcial]</strong>  
<strong>---> [TYPESCRIPT OFFICIAL DOCUMENTATION][typescript-document]</strong>  
<strong>---> [TYPESCRIPT PLAYGROUND][ts-playground]</strong>  
<strong>---> [TYPESCRIPT LECTURE WEBSITE: DREAM CODING][instructor]</strong>

<br>

## 12. Intersection

While the Union Type allows developers to choose one type from several options, the Intersection allows them to use many from the options. In other words, the Union type can be described as "OR" type, but the Intersection type can be described as "AND" type.

{% highlight typescript %}
{

    type Student = {
        name: string;
        score: number;
    };

    type Worker = {
        employeeId: number;
        work: () => void;
    };

    function internWork(person: Student & Worker) {
        console.log(person.name);
        console.log(person.score);
        console.log(person.employeeId);
        console.log(person.work());
    };

    internWork({
        name: 'simon',
        score: 1,
        employeeId: 123,
        work: () => {},
    })

}
{% endhighlight %}

<br>

## 13. Enum (Enumerated Type)

An enumerated type (AKA. Enumeration, Enum) is a data type consisting of a set of named values called elements, enumeral, or enumerators of the type. The enumerator names are usually identifiers that behave as constants in the language.

{% highlight javascript %}

const DAYS_ENUM = Object.freeze({
"MONDAY": 0,
"TUESDAY": 1,
"WEDNESDAY": 2,
});

const dayOfToday = DAYS_ENUM.MONDAY; //<- dayOfToday will have the value '0'.

{% endhighlight %}

{% highlight typescript %}

enum Days {
Monday,
Tuesday,
Wednesday,
};

console.log(Days.Wednesday); //<- this will return '2'.

// If you want to start with the number 3 from Monday.
enum DaysWithThree {
Monday = 3,
Tuesday,
Wednesday,
};

// If you want to set it up with string.
enum DaysWithString {
Monday = 'monday',
Tuesday = 'tuesday',
Wednesday = 'wednesday',
};

{% endhighlight %}

It'd be better not to use Enum frequently. The variable declared with the Enum type can be redeclared with another data as below:

{% highlight typescript %}

enum Days {
Monday,
Tuesday,
Wednesday,
};

let day: Days = Days.Tuesday;
day = 10; //<- This does not return an error though the value '10' is not included in the Enum.

{% endhighlight %}

Instead, you can use the Union type as below:
{% highlight typescript %}

type DaysOfWeek = 'Monday' | 'Tuesday' | 'Wednesday';

let dayOfWeek: DaysOfWeek = 'Monday';
dayOfWeek = 'Simon' // <- This returns an error.

{% endhighlight %}

<br>
<br>
<br>

[typescript-offcial]: https://www.typescriptlang.org/
[typescript-document]: https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/
[instructor]: https://academy.dream-coding.com/
[ts-playground]: https://www.typescriptlang.org/play
