---
layout: post
title: OOP (7) - Generics
categories: oop lecture
author: Simon Lee
permalink: /:categories/:title
---

[Typescript Official Document: Generics][ts-generic]

## 11. Generics

While using any is certainly generic in that it will cause the function to accept any and all types for the type of arg, we actually are losing the information about what that type was when the function returns. If we passed in a number, the only information we have is that any type could be returned.

Instead, we need a way of capturing the type of the argument in such a way that we can also use it to denote what is being returned. Here, we will use a type variable, a special kind of variable that works on types rather than values.

{% highlight typescript %}

    function identity (arg: any): any {
        return arg;
    };

{% endhighlight %}

We’ve now added a type variable Type to the identity function. This Type allows us to capture the type the user provides (e.g. number), so that we can use that information later. Here, we use Type again as the return type. On inspection, we can now see the same type is used for the argument and the return type. This allows us to traffic that type information in one side of the function and out the other.

We say that this version of the identity function is generic, as it works over a range of types. Unlike using any, it’s also just as precise (ie, it doesn’t lose any information) as the first identity function that used numbers for the argument and return type.

{% highlight typescript %}

    function identity<Type> (arg: Type): Type {
        return arg;
    };

{% endhighlight %}

<br>

#### <strong>11-1. Generic example in a function below:</strong>

{% highlight typescript %}

{

    function checkNotNull<T>(arg: T | null): T {
        if (arg == null) {
            throw new Error(`Not valid number!`);
        }
        return arg;
    }
    const number = checkNotNull(123);
    const bool: boolean = checkNotNull(true);

}

{% endhighlight %}

<br>

#### <strong>11-2. Generic example in a class below:</strong>

{% highlight typescript %}

    interface Either<L, R> {
        left: () => L;
        right: () => R;
    };

    class SimpleEither<L, R> implements Either<L, R> {
        constructor (private leftValue: L, private rightValue: R) {

        }
        left(): L {
            return this.leftValue;
        };
        right(): R {
            return this.rightValue;
        };
    }

    const either: Either<number, number> = new SimpleEither(4, 5);
    either.left();
    either.right();

    const best = new SimpleEither(3, 'hello');
    const obj = new SimpleEither({name: 'Simon'}, 'hello')

{% endhighlight %}

<br>

#### <strong>11-3. Generic example: conditional in a class below:</strong>

{% highlight typescript %}

    const obj = {
    name: "simon",
    age: 20,
    };

    function getValue <T, K extends keyof T> (obj: T, key: K): T[K] {
    return obj[key];
    }

    console.log(getValue(obj, "name")); // <- Expected Return "simon"

{% endhighlight %}

<br>
<br>
<br>

[ts-generic]: https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/2/generics.html
