---
layout: post
title: ReactJS (1) - Installation/Create React App
categories: react lecture
author: Simon Lee
permalink: /:categories/:title
---

## 1. Installation

`git -v`  
`node -v`  
`npm -v`  
`brew install yarn`  
`yarn -v`

`npm` stands for Node Package Manager to manage (install / update / delete) the packages runninng in the node environment.

`npx` stands for Node Package Execute to actually run the packages on the Node applications.

<br>
<br>
<br>

## 2. Create React App

`yarn create react-app (Project Name)`

`yarn start`  
Starts the development server.

`yarn build`  
Bundles the app into static files for production.

`yarn test`  
Starts the test runner.

`yarn eject`  
Removes this tool and copies build dependencies, configuration files
and scripts into the app directory. If you do this, you can’t go back!

<br>
<br>
<br>

## 3. Hidden Tools

<strong>Babel</strong> is JavaScript Transcompiler which converts ECMAScript2015+ codes into the older version as well as TypeScript/JSX codes into JavaScript codes.

<strong>Webpack</strong> is JavaScript Bundler that bundles the codes and files and changes the name of the variables to some encrypted names.

<strong>ESLint</strong> is a Checking Codes tool.

<strong>Jest</strong> is JavaScript Unit Testing Framework.

<strong>PostCSS</strong> is expandable CSS Libraries that transform CSS with JavaScript.

<br>
<br>
<br>

### Chrome Browser Extension

- [Chrome Browser Extension][chrome-browser-extension]

### References

- [React Official Document][react-doc]
- [Create React App][create-react-doc]

[react-doc]: https://reactjs.org/docs/getting-started.html
[create-react-doc]: https://create-react-app.dev/docs/getting-started
[chrome-browser-extension]: https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/react-developer-tools/fmkadmapgofadopljbjfkapdkoienihi?hl=en
